In this video
we'll cover the Angular Front End.
So we'll create the Angular Front End components
to retrieve data from the Spring Boot REST API's.
So we've already done the work
on the back end of developing a Spring Boot
and exposing those API's.
Now we're focusing here on the front end
of building out our Angular Front End code.
Alrighty, so let's look at our development process.
So the first thing that we'll do is
we'll create our Angular project.
Then we'll create Angular components
for showing the product-list.
Next we'll develop the TypeScript class for our product.
Then we'll create an Angular service to call the REST API's.
And then we'll update our Angular component
to subscribe to data from the Angular service.
And then we'll display the data in an HTML page.
And finally, we'll add cross origin support
to our Spring Boot application.
So the first step is really simple.
We'll create a new project using the Angular CLI.
We'll use the ng new angular-ecommerce.
And then step two of creating the Angular component
for the product list,
we make use of ng generate component,
and we say components/product-list.
In step three we'll develop our TypeScript class
for our product.
So this is just a very basic TypeScript class,
it's going to to hold the data for us.
So we make use of this ng generate class, common/product.
And they'll create a very basic class, that's just a shell.
And then we'll add in these properties
for our given product.
And these are the same properties that are exposed
by the REST API.
In step four we'll create an Angular service
to call the REST API's.
So an Angular service is code developed in TypeScript.
The service is a helper class
that provides desired functionality,
and it's part of your Angular application
and it runs in the web browser client-side.
So don't let the word service fool you here.
It's really just a reusable class or a helper class
that runs as part of our Angular application
and it runs in the web browser on the client-side.
And here's a diagram to kind of show you the interaction here.
So on the back end, we have our Spring Boot back end
exposing those REST API's.
Now we're doing the front end code in our Angular project.
And so our Angular project
is will have all the GUI components,
but it'll also have service or multiple services.
So these services, again, just reusable classes,
or helper classes, that run in the web browser
on the client-side and we create these services
using TypeScript code.
Angular provides a REST client,
and this client is called the HTTPClient.
We need to add support for this in our application module.
So in the imports section of our application module,
we need to add a reference here for the HTTPClientModule.
Alrighty, so now here's the code for our service.
So a couple of things here for our service.
Up top, our service is going to be injected
into our components.
Angular has built-in support
for a dependency injection framework.
So we simply annotate this class with @injectable,
providedIn: "root".
So this basically says, hey, here's a class
and you can inject it as a dependency
into another component or class.
So the providedIn: "root" means that
this class can be injected globally.
So it's not specific to a given module.
You can use it anywhere
within this given Angular application.
So here's our class ProductService.
We have the baseURL for right now.
We simply hard coded localhost 8080 API products.
I'll show you how to put it in the config files later.
And now moving to our constructor,
our class has a dependency on the HTTPClient.
So we can inject this client
by making use of the constructor here.
We get the private reference
and then Angular will handle injecting
this given httpClient into our given service.
And so then we have getProductList.
This method will return an observable of product array.
And so inside of the coding here,
we have return this.httpClient.getresponse, this.baseURL
We're going to make use of a pipe and
we're going to map our data to a response.
And we say response._embedded.products.
So that's the JSON, it's coming back to
that spring data REST API.
Remember that underscore embedded.
So at the bottom here,
we have this interface called get response.
It'll basically take that underscore embedded,
and then take those products inside of embedded
and then map those to a given product.
So this piece of code here basically handles
grabbing that JSON data, unwrapping it, pulling it apart,
and then placing that data into an array of products.
Now at this point, this is just an observable,
we don't execute that Code until we actually have
a listener or subscriber on the code,
and we'll cover that on the next slide.